# CryptoClass
Useful code for a Cryptography class

This file will describe the point of each code in this directory. 

First, we will look at DESProgram.py, which implements a Feistel cipher that is fundamental to the DES encyrption and decryption process.
1. What is DES?
DES is a multi-stage encryrption process --- this program implements the main step in the encyrption

In a full DES implementation, input would be a 64-bit string and a 56-bit key (only 48 bits of which are used). From this key, 16 6-bit subkeys would be generated by some process to be used. 

First, the entries of this string are permuted. Then the string would be broken into 8-bit strings
Next, each 8-bit string would be broken into a left and right half. The right-half is inflated to 6-bits by a deterministic process and xor-ed with the first key.
The result is then run through a specific ``S-box" to produce a new 4-bit string. This new 4-bit string is xor-ed with the left half string
The new left half is the old right half, and the new right half is the string generated above. This procedure is repeated with each of the subkeys (and the same S-box), in order.
After 16 rounds, the left and right half are switched once more, and the 8-bit strings are reassembled. Then, the inverse of the initial permutation is performed. The result is the encrypted string.
Decryption works the same way, the subkeys are simply used in reverse order.

2. What does this program do?
The file here ignores the permutation and splitting, focussing on the Feistel cipher that takes up most of the description. 
The program has thre set subkeys for a 3-round encrpytion, but runs both encyryption and decryption on any 8-bit string. It also has error messages, if the user fails to input a bit string, or inputs a string of the wrong length. 
It also outputs intermediate stage of the encrpytion/decryption procedure which can be used to check student work.

3. Future improvements
This can be easily adjusted to run a full 16-round Feistel cipher and subkey generation procedure, once an appropriate one is determined.
The program can also be adjusted to give a verbose option with intermediate stages, for checking work, that can be suppressed.

